powerhouse presented by Alliant Energy
when it comes to keeping your home safe
the first line of defense is your
exterior doors to make them secure they
should all have deadbolt locks today
we're going to show you a project that
will make it quick and easy for you and
your family members to lock and unlock
doors if you seem to be in the habit of
losing your keys like me or if you have
kids in your family you might want to
consider keyless entry systems they're
affordable easy to use and as you'll see
easy to install
whether you're replacing an existing
lock or installing one on a new door
there are several keyless options to
choose from the most popular are these
battery operated standalone models they
don't require any fancy wiring or
complicated installation and the keypad
is mounted right on the outside of the
door keyless entry systems come in
models that just work with the deadbolt
or as in this case where it's part of
the handle set they're easy to use to
unlock the door you simply punch in a
code number typically it's 2 to 8 digits
long to release the deadbolt or the door
knob
if these keyless systems have any
drawback at all it's they're somewhat
institutional appearance so if you don't
like the look for your front door you
might consider using it for your back
door or a mudroom door today we're going
to show you how to install and program a
lock set these push button type locks
are always mounted on the outside and
they're always unlocked on the inside
models that lock automatically on the
inside are not suitable for home use
because you might have difficulty
unlocking the door and getting out of
the house in an emergency we're
installing this lock on a new door that
has been pre-drilled if your door isn't
pre-drilled then the first step is
preparing the door using the template
supplied make two marks one for the
center of the hole on the face of the
door and one for the center of the hole
on the edge of the door our door is
pre-cut as you can see but if yours
isn't you'll need to drill a 2-inch
diameter hole through the door face for
the handle assembly to avoid damaging
the surface material drill through from
both sides and then when you're done
drill a one-inch diameter hole in the
door edge for the latch to install the
latch slide it into the 1-inch hole
being sure to keep it parallel to the
doors face mark the outline of the face
plate on the edge of the door and
the latch then using a small chisel make
a 1/8 inch notch for the face plate
chisel just enough so that the plate is
flush with the edge of the door insert
the latch and secure it with the
appropriate screws install the strike
plate following the same steps and
secure it with the appropriate screws
with the door completed you're ready to
install the lock and handle set first
install the exterior handle or knob
through the exterior faceplate and
touchpad and then through the door on
the inside of the door secure it to the
inside mounting plate now connect the
wiring from the back of the exterior
faceplate to the back of the inside
handle assembly and then attach the
handle assembly to the inside mounting
plate with the appropriate screws turn
the outside door handle to ensure that
the latch assembly functions properly
the last step is to program the lock to
program this particular model locate the
buttons labeled s and C and the
programming switch under the battery
cover press the set button labeled s and
the unit will beep once on the keypad
punch in your desired code from 2 to 8
digits and then press the unlock button
to enter the code engage the lock by
pressing the lock button on the keypad
and to test the lock enter your code and
press the unlock key and it's that easy
and changing the code is easy too which
is helpful in the event that someone you
don't want to have access to your home
gets the code like a child's friend or
perhaps next spouse protecting your
family and your home is important
whether you decide to install a keyless
entry or not make sure you have deadbolt
locks on your exterior doors and use
them stick around there's lots more
powerhouse coming your way